Israel's Army says its ground troops
have surrounded gaza's City and
effectively divided the strip in two the
Hamas Iran Gaza Health Ministry says
more than 200 people have been killed
following major Israeli air strikes
which also caused a Communications
blackout inside the territory meanwhile
the leaders of major un agencies have
called for an immediate ceasefire and
for more humanitarian
Aid the Israel Defense Forces have once
again intensified operations in Northern
Gaza they say they are targeting Hamas
Fighters and infrastructure from the air
sea and land Israel has repeatedly
warned civilians to move South where it
is supposed to be safer but a planned
humanitarian Corridor did not
materialize and those who do risk the
journey say it's very
dangerous we've been walking for 3 hours
to get
here I can't walk and my son has been
pushing me all the
way the situation is very
difficult there's no bread no water
nothing tanks in front of us and dead
bodies it was very very scary especially
for the
kids the Israeli military has released
what it says is evidence that Hamas is
blocking roads to stop civilians leaving
and using schools and hospitals as cover
forit attacks this is part of a
operation a ground operation that was
conducted on the hospital then revealed
a tunnel that was being used for Terror
infrastructures in the Qatari hospital
they launch rockets on Israel 75 M from
an Hospital why they know precisely that
if Israel will air strike a launch pad
like that the hust Hospital would be
damaged as the attacks in the north
intensify Israel now says it has split
the Gaza Strip into
two and despite increasing International
cuse for a ceasefire Israel says that
won't happen until all the hostages held
by Hamas are freed and until then those
on the ground can only take shelter and
hope to
survive let's speak to DW's
correspondent Rebecca Ritter reporting
from Jerusalem
Rebecca Israel says its military has
split the Gaza Strip in two amid
Israel's ground operation can you tell
us what that looks
like yeah that's right we had
confirmation yesterday that there is now
a North Gaza and a South Gaza that
Israeli troops had made their way to the
beach to the Shoreline basically and
they were holding that line they've now
also completely encircled Gaza City and
it's being reported that in the next 48
hours or so so we can expect to see
Israeli troops actually inside Gaza City
uh out on the ground H you know with clo
close combat with Hamas Fighters there
now uh we've seen a really heavy
bombardment overnight with some people
saying it's been the the heaviest night
uh in the ground operation so far uh
some truly horrific uh sights coming out
from the bombing particularly in Gaza
hospital we know that areas around the
alifa hospital have been bombed with the
IDF saying continuity and yesterday you
know showing what they say is evidence
that Hamas are using these hospitals as
headquarters we've also heard from some
medical personnel though saying that
there aren't armed militants uh in these
hospitals and and that this is in fact
false we it's very hard to independently
verify anything there's no uh
International journalists allowed inside
there's no other organizations allowed
inside Gaza so we do know that there's
been an internet blackout overnight
though we have been hearing that that is
slowly been being restored so these
calls for people to move away to
evacuate uh falling on people that may
not be able to even be getting the
messages so really really serious
situation and looking to intensify into
yet another stage of this conflict
indeed a very difficult situation for
civilians there in Gaza the IDF has says
has said it is allowing civilians to
move from northern Gaza to the South
using a one-way Corridor will that be a
safe option for people to
flee it's hard to determine though we
know that civilians have been being
caught up in attacks even as they've
been trying to head from north to south
we know that the Israeli military have
been telling civilians to leave for some
weeks now and they have as you say
cleared up that Corridor or they've said
that they've opened that uh Corridor to
allow for civilians to go in that oneway
route uh into the South um whether or
not that going to be much relief you
know we know that there are a lot of
civilians who just simply aren't able to
move or perhaps are unwilling and either
way will be stuck inside this SE
besieged area but we also know that the
Israeli military has been targeting or
at least bombing areas in the South even
in the areas where civilians have been
told to go that it is safe so you know
more people I assume will be using that
window the window is from 10: until 2
local time today we're in the middle of
that window at the moment I can assume
that some people will be using that
route but whether or not it will make
them any safer when they're in the South
really remains to be seen Rebecca thank
you very much for that update that's DW
correspondent Rebeca Ritter reporting
from
Jerusalem now Jordan's King has revealed
that the country's military dropped
medical supplies into the Gaza Strip
overnight in a message on the social
media platform X King Abdullah announced
that urgent medical Aid had been aird
dropped at midnight and added that
Jordan would always be there to assist
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip now the
Israeli military has confirmed that the
operation was completed with its
cooperation and uh Christian kater is
the head of Doctors Without Borders or
msf here in Germany uh he joins us from
Berlin thank you so much for taking the
time to speak with us I understand that
Doctors Without Borders is continuing to
operate in Gaza as best it can under
extremely difficult conditions uh how
much support are your staff Curr ly able
to
provide it is very difficult to operate
in Gaza right now we have actually
literally told all all our staff to to
be free of their work to First Care for
their families and themselves
nevertheless a lot of our staff have
chosen to continue to work it is uh very
difficult with supplies running
dramatically low all the time even
though some resupplies had been um
possible into Gaza we see you know a
lack of fuel a lock of lack of water a
lack of the basics in medication which
makes medical decision- making very hard
indeed um tell me a little bit more
about that with such a dire need for
your staff to attend to those who are
critically injured are other more basic
Primary Care needs being met at
all what we hear from our staff is that
getting food and water for themselves
and the families is is very very
difficult to find a safe space um to
sleep um is almost impossible even in
the south of Gaza just because of the
mass of people but we see also that um
uh in hospitals um with the lack of fuel
um running generators is is impossible
to most of the time and therefore uh
conducting Quality Medical Care is
impossible with a lot of people needing
special attention uh due to fighting but
also due to chronic diseases um where
like high blood pressure or or um or
other things newborn uh children
can't be put on incubator because
there's no electricity so the medical
situation in Gaza um is without words
now um the Hamas ran Gaza Health
Ministry has said that close to half of
those who've been killed are our
children our minors are you seeing that
that percentage also reflected in the
number of patients who are being treated
by Doctors Without
Borders we we see a lot of patients
injured to do the fighting um and among
them is is is a high proportion also of
of women and children um but also one
has to remember that not every man uh in
this context is is a fighter and um and
uh and also due to um International laws
even if somebody had been fighting um
and is wounded uh is warrant should be
warranted special protection uh that's
one of the points which we definitely
see it needs a pause in the fighting to
allow for human maintain access to reach
Gaza and for people in Gaza to reach
humanitarian Aid and Medical Aid we hear
from our patients that actually
accessing medical facilities is uh is
super difficult for security
reasons well thank you so much for
speaking with us on DW news we really
appreciate your time that is Christian
cater with Doctors Without
Borders thank you very
much